>> Mike North: Earlier we had
a question about the difference between
interfaces and
something called type aliases.
And these are both ways of giving
a structure a name that we can import and
export from modules, and we can refer to.
The main benefit is we have one central
place where a type is defined, and
it can be used throughout a code base.
So we're gonna study these two concepts,
and compare and contrast them.
Along the way, we're gonna touch on
different types of signatures which
includes the kind of signature we're
used to for invoking a function, and
something called an index signature.
We will discuss the idea of open
interfaces, and this is a way that you can
augment types that you may
import from a library somewhere.
We will discuss the concept of access
modifier keywords which gives us control
over who can see methods and
instance data when it comes to classes.
And finally we'll touch on heritage
clauses which is just a fancy name for
extends, right?
You're used to extends
from JavaScript classes.
There's a new one called implements
that comes with with TypeScript.
So we'll open our notes to
the page that starts with three,
interface and type basics.
>> Mike North: Type aliases,
a really simple concept.
It is literally giving a type a name.
Any type that you can use with a variable,
you can also create a type alias for.
So, when I say string or
number here,
>> Mike North: What I mean
here is anything that could exist in this
space, you can create a type alias for.
This is not true for interfaces.
So type alias is actually more flexible
than an interface in some way.
This is the only time you'll ever
see a type up here on the right hand
side of an equals.
Well, there is one other but,
it is really the identical
concept just in a slightly
different syntax, but
we're exclusively looking
in type space here.
This will compile to no JavaScript at all.
>> Mike North: One of the challenges with
type aliases is that they are defined and
figured out by the compiler
in terms of what values
are allowed,
in line as the file is parsed.
And this prevents you from
creating self reverential types.
So let's say we had a data structure
that we wanted to create a type for,
that looked like this.
>> Mike North: 1, 2, 3, 1, 1.
Right, it consist of 1s, 2s and
3s, but also a nested array.
Really simplified kinda JSONish thing.
Like there's some hierarchy here
in a set of allowed values.
We could try to type this saying
that the value can be 1, 2 or
3, or an array,
where an array is an array of NumVals.
Typescript compiler is not happy,
and the reason is,
it wants to conclusively figure
out what NumVal is all about,
before it moves on to the next line,
and it has not yet encountered this.
So, it runs into a circular problem.
It's like a chicken and the egg problem.
To define A we need B which needs A,
and so follow that all the way down.
So, we will look back to this and
explain how this can be.
We can use to our advantage.
We can use this weakness as strength.
>> Mike North: So
we've already looked at interfaces.
I wanna point out that interfaces
can extend from other interfaces,
like same syntax that you're
used to seeing with classes.
Just remember that extends is used for
inheritance of like things.
Interfaces extend from interfaces,
classes extend from classes.
So here we're just adding country
code to something that already
has a phone number and a name.